ΤΟ ΤΗΕ

RIGHT REVEREND FATHER IN CHRIST,

GILBERT,

BY THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE, LORD BISHOP OF LONDONJ

THE sacrifice by the law was to be delivered into the hands of the
priest, and to be offered by him: and since your hands, reverend
prelate, vouchsafed to offer my εὐκτικὰ, petitione, to the king’s
majesty, I now become an humble petitioner that those hands would
please to offer also my χαριστήρια, these testimonia& of my thanlcs.

I bring the firstfruits of my replantation which the royal favour
indulged me by the intercession of your honour, when Ι had been
rooted up. For since by that favour I am restored to these seats,
to peace, and my studies, there is nothing I now desire besides,
nothing more than that that most excellent prince may perceive,
that he hath not been a benefactor to an ungrateful person, however
unworthy, however obscure : and that your honour may see that
you have not interceded for a forgetful person, howsoever unde—
serving.

I shall never forget, great sir, with how much kindness and can-
dour your honour received me in my straits‚ altogether unknown 10
you, and whose face you had never before seen : with how great
concern you pleaded my cause before the king's majesty, before the
most honourable the lord chancellor of England, and before the
right reverend my diocesan: how your honour consulted for me,
wrote letters, laid stops, that my ruin might 1101 proceed beyond a
possibility of restoration. All which while I reflect upon, which Ι
ever do, and while, together with that reflection, I consider what
obligation lays upon me on one hand, and my own meanness on the

² Leasden's edition, vol. ii. p. 596.

